This is a single library that allows jerq(AT&T 5620 Terminal)
code to run on X11 or sunwindows.  It should be useful for porting
jerq code to suns and educational for comparing the three
different window systms.  The improved getrect routine
(ngetrect) that does optional blocking and clipping, and the
jerq hierarchical menus are courtesy of Jon Helfman.
The suntools code avoids all calls to sunview except "fullscreen" in order
to minimize the size of the executables (which are still twice as big as
the X11 programs).

Care was taken to make the library code look just like the jerq code.
But there are still a couple of problems that require source code changes.
These are documented in great detail in the T.M.:

D. A. Kapilow and J. I. Helfman, "A 5620 Emulator Library for Version
11 X Windows abd Suntools", 11228-880525-06TMS.

For example, Cursors and Textures must be registered with the server in X11
before use, although this is not necessary with the sun library. Fonts are
also different, although defont can still be used in most cases.
A new macro: defontheight can be used instead of defont.height to get
the maximum height of characters in the default font. Most of the
differences should be clear by glancing at the test programs:

t0:	tests bitblt, rectf, screenswap, point, texture, balloc
t1:	tests circle, ellipse, disc, eldisc, arc, elarc, segment,
		string, and cursswitch
t2:	tests non-hierarchical menus, string, and keyboard input
t3:	a simple slider bar
t4:	tests ngetrect (an improved getrect), getrect, texture, and rectf
t5:	tests hierarchical menus
t6:	alarm and ngetrect

Preprocessor defines are used to compile the library and applications
for different environments.  Possible window system flags are
	-DSUNTOOLS or -DX11
while operating system switches are
	-DBSD (for a Sun) and -DV9 (for Ninth Edition)
The x11 and suntools subdirectories include the appropriate mk and make files.
Type "mk all" in each directory to build the libraries and tests if you
have A. Hume's mk, or "make all" if you don't.

There is a companion T.M. describing some of the tools that have been
ported with the library:
D. A. Kapilow, "A Set of (Old 5620) Tools for Version 11 X Windows
and Suntools", 11228-880706-09TMS.

Dave Kapilow		alice!dak
Jon Helfman		alice!jon
